N# Hotel-analysis-Power-BI
Hotel panorama and revenue analysis in Power Bi
## Data base: 

1. dim_date
2. dim_hotels
3. dim_rooms
4. fact_aggregated_bookings
5. fact_bookings


### Column Description for dim_date:
1. date: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
2. mmm yy: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
3. week no: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
4. day_type: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekeday.

### Column Description for dim_hotels:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. property_name: This column represents the name of each hotel.
3. category: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to. 
4. city: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.

### Column Description for dim_rooms:
1. room_id: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
2. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.

### Column Description for fact_aggregated_bookings:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. check_in_date: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
3. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
4. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
5. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.

### Column Description for fact_bookings:
1. booking_id: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
2. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
3. booking_date: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
4. check_in_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
5. check_out_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
6. no_guests: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
7. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
8. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
9. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
10. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
11. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
12. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.

## Analysis 
Based on the data given we focused in 3 main topics:
- Room type analysis 
- City insights
- General panorama throughout the weeks

Calculating revenue, WoW, Ratings given, booking status and occupanci rate segmented by the last 3 topics.

### Relevant Findings
#### General panorama
- 70% of bookings were successful and realised
- The week 20 had the highest WoW change regarding the revenue, in a 28% of increase
- The higest occupated week was the 32nd with a 65% occupancy rate
- The realisation rate was relatively stable throughout the analysed period of time.
  
#### Rooms
- The room type that provides the highest income to the company is the Presidential type, representing 44.73% of the total, as well as 62.96 thousand dollars.
- Though, the room type that was the most widely booked is Elite type, with 49 thousand total bookings, followed by the standard room type.

#### City panorama
- The worst ranked city is Banglore, with 3 stars, while the other headquarters gor a 4 star grade
- The headquarter which provides the highest revenue is Mumbai, with a 669 million revenue
- The city which has the highest occupancy rate is Delhi, with a 61% while the lowest is Banglore, with a 56%
- The city which has had the most online bookings is Mumbai, with a 32% of the total online bookings

## Conclusions 
As we can see, Delhi is the most popular hotel headquarter, though it isn't the most profitable one, we should review the expense and price structure to know the reason of this finding, while Mumbai, being one of the least popular hotels has the hichest revenue and successful bookings rate, making it one of the strongest hotels in financial terms.

In room terms, Presidential class is the most profitable one, yet the least popular one, while Elite is the least profitable, but, the most popular one.

Income and occupancy panorama seems to be similar througout the year, as occupancy tends to vary in around a 10% and revenue in a 20% the highest. While bookings tend to be relatively stable, with a 70% realisation rate.
